I'm Vicki MacDonald and I'm in Holy Trinity Church, Llandudno, as part of the Longest Yarn.
And I'm now going to speak to Nigel Morgan because he's going to tell me a story about his father during the war.
Thank you, Nigel. Thank you very much indeed.
Not a problem at all, Vicki. Nice to meet you.
I'm just showing Vicki a photograph of my dad, which was taken in Dieppe, in France, not long after D-Day, after they landed.
So, this is my dad, Hugh Morgan.
He was 19 years old when he made the unimaginable journey from his roots in Blenifest-Inyog to the battlefields in France on D-Day June 1944,
with his band of brothers that were the RASC, the Royal Army Service Corps.
I remember him telling me stories of when him and some of his mates were in a bomb crater moving forward towards the enemy lines.
At one point in the battle, him and some of his friends advanced the next crater.
And as they jumped for safety into the next muddle, the one he had just left was hit with a mortar round,
killing all his friends that just a few short minutes before he had been alongside, he counted himself very lucky.
He never called himself a hero, but he was always a hero to me.
In fact, I'm just having his medals re-ribboned by James Malins, who's a local Army Cadet captain,
and they're going to be completed by the end of this month.
In fact, I've just only just picked them up.
And when I was sorting out the medals, I found out some of his paperwork from when he was in the Army,
realized he was part of the RASC, had a quick look at trying to do some research into where they fitted into everything.
I looked on the Imperial War Museum and I found the actual, the RASC were part of the landing party.
They were part of, normally, they're part of D-Day landings, which I never really knew before.
So it was new to me and it was a huge honor.
And I'm very disappointed that over the years, I never got to speak to my dad more about this.
I wish I'd have known.
But in order to pay homage to my dad, I've now got his medals re-ribboned.
And this year, I'm hoping to be able to honor my father's memory and his service by wearing his medals proudly on Remembrance Day.
Lest we forget.
Oh, thank you, Nigel. That was a lovely memory.
And yes, you will be able to wear them on your left side.
On my right side, yeah.
On your right side, I wear my father's.
I will, yeah. So I'm looking forward to it. I've literally only just got them.
How many did he get?
He got four.
And he was in the police, so he's got a long service medal as well.
So I've got three medals from a tide.
And so I've had them redone.
On the old ribbons, I've had them done into a small band of ribbons.
So yesterday, I was in the fortunate position to be able to pass them on to my sister as a gift, which obviously she was very moved by.
So he survived the war and he came back.
So did he, do you think that when he was in Dieppe that he joined the rest of the forces on their way to Caen and Baer?
Did he?
Yeah, well, I was looking at the Imperial War Museum records.
The RAC backed the British and the Canadian troops when they landed at Arremont.
And I remember him telling me stories about Arremont.
And I never took enough notice.
And I think this is where maybe my generation missed out and we never really sat properly and listened and appreciated.
I don't think they wanted to talk.
He didn't.
And he never did.
It used to come out every now and again.
He used to drop in the odd this and the odd that, but he never really spoke about it properly.
The only incident I think he spoke about was the bomb crater incident.
Oh, until he realized how fortunate he was.
How lucky he was.
But how desperate also the fact that his comrades who were very important to the men at the time were killed.
And he must have been really, really upset and shattered.
Really.
And my dad was a real hard man, a proper rough hard man, smoker, drinker, fighter, and from the hills in Blaenaufist in Jogh.
But every Remembrance Sunday is the only time I think I ever saw him cry.
And that's the time he used to recap the odd story.
And so we used to pick up on little memories such as that.
And that was only on Remembrance Sunday.
And that's the only time I really ever saw my dad moved and cry was on Remembrance Day.
And that's when those little stories used to come out.
I just wish I'd listened more.
But hopefully now moving forward, we can show him the appreciation that he deserved.
Thank you, Nigel, very much.
It's a pleasure.